A "weapon of math destruction" (WMD) is:
A large-scale algorithm or predictive model
That is opaque (hard to understand or challenge)
And causes unfair or damaging outcomes
While affecting lots of people

The term was coined by Cathy O'neil in her 2016 book by the same name. O'Neil is an mathematician
and data scientist. She earned a PhD in mathematics, worked in academia, then moved into finance as 
a quantitative analyst, and later became a data science consultant and public advocate
for algorithmic accountability.

Examples from the book

Credit scoring
Credit scoring algorithms are statistical models used by lenders (banks and credit card companies) to estimate the likelihood that someone will repay a loan. Proper credit scoring algorithms use information such as payment history, amount of debt, credit history length, types of credit, and recent credit inquiries. However, many more destructive algorithms use systems such as ZIP code or neighborhood, education level, employment type, shopping behavior, social network data, and device usage patterns. This information is often collected without the user even being aware that it is being used to determine their likelihood of repaying a loan.

Hiring and resume screening
Many companies receive thousands or millions of applications, so they use automated systems to filter candidates before a human sees them. They often use machine learning models trained on historical hiring data to predict which applicants are most likely to succeed. These models can often lead to heavily enforced feedback loops, for example, if a model were to hire someone who graduated from an elite or Ivy League school and sees good results from them, they use this information and reinforce that these are the types of employees they should be hiring, slowly pooling out people who may have any lesser form of education. This isn't exclusive to education level, as these models will begin to favor factors such as work experience, job titles, employment gaps, listed skills, and can even become biased toward keywords that may be in the resume.

Predictive policing
Predictive policing systems use data analysis and machine learning to forecast crime patterns. Police departments use these models to decide what areas need more policing and what criminals are more likely to reoffend. These models can often be biased because policing is not evenly distributed or enforced across different areas. If police were to patrol an area more heavily, those areas would often see higher crime rates, prompting them to patrol them even more heavily, while ignoring areas where crime goes unnoticed, often in higher-income neighborhoods.

College rankings
College ranking systems collect data about universities and use weighted formulas to rank them from “best” to “worst.” The most influential of these being the "U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges ranking" which uses data such as graduation rates, faculty resources, acceptance rate, test scores, financial resources per student, and alumni return/donation rates. The issue is that rankings influence university behavior, even when the metrics do not actually measure educational quality. Universities compete to improve their ranking score, sometimes by manipulating the variables the algorithm measures. This creates a situation in which schools optimize for the ranking algorithm rather than improving education.

Teacher evaluation
Many school districts have adopted data-driven teacher evaluation systems to measure teacher effectiveness. One common method uses Value-Added Models (VAMs). These algorithms estimate how much a teacher improves their students’ academic performance. They do this by predicting how students are expected to perform on standardized tests, then compare those predictions with actual test results and finally attribute the difference to the teacher. These models can be problematic because there are often external factors beyond the teacher that may affect a student's education, such as family income, parental involvement, language barriers, classroom resources, and prior educational quality. With all these factors affecting students, comparing test performance to a teacher’s ability can be misleading or inaccurate.
